README.md, before:

# Pandoc boilerplate
Boilerplate for Markdown to LaTeX and PDF conversion using `pandoc`. The Markdown language is relatively simple, see the essentials on their 
[website](https://www.markdownguide.org/cheat-sheet/). Using `pandoc`, the more complex LaTeX file format can be generated and further compiled 
with your preferred LaTeX to PDF converter. With Markdown we achieve almost the same results as with LaTeX, though much less writing is required.

## Requirements

The following tools are used and need to be installed in order to use this boilerplate.
- [GNU Make](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/)
- [Pandoc](https://pandoc.org/)
- [Pandoc Crossref](https://archlinux.org/packages/extra/x86_64/pandoc-crossref/)
- [TexLive](https://www.tug.org/texlive/)

## Compilation

For easy compilation, e.g. conversion from a `.md` to a `.tex` and `.pdf` file, we use a `Makefile`. Simply run:
```
$ make
```
To clean reproducible files, i.e. the generated `.tex` and `.pdf` file run:
```
$ make clean
```

## Files

The two files that should be edited are the `main.md` and `main.bib` files, the former for writing the document in the Markdown language and 
the latter for `bibtex` references.

## Figures

Figures are assumed to be placed in the `figures` folder. For pixel based graphics, it is recommended to use PNG files (300 dpi). For vector 
graphics, use PDF files.

## Citations

Citations should be contained in the `main.bib` file following the `bibtex` format, which is readily available for most research papers listed on 
[Google scholar](https://scholar.google.be/).

## Notes

- To create labels for sections, equations, figures, etc. use \{\#sec:foo\}, and to reference said label use \[\@sec:foo\], naturally,
replace 'sec' with 'eq' for equations, 'fig' for figures, etc.
- Citations follow the same format, \[@foo\] where 'foo' is the name given to the citation in the `main.bib` file.
- Images can be includes with \!\[caption\]\(path/to/image\)\{\#fig:foo .class width=50\% height=50\%\}. The first brackets
give a caption to the image. The second contains the file path to the image we want to display and the last brackets define the
label for the figure used to refer to it, along with `css` type styling, for instance, to size the image.
- In the YAML metadata the `bibliography` field points to the `*.bib` file for the project and is needed for completion with Neovim.

## Makefile documentation

- Quick reference to [Automatic variables](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/manual/make.html#Automatic-Variables)
- Quick reference to [Text Functions](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/manual/html_node/Text-Functions.html)

Commit message:

We structured the boilerplate for multifile projects, the Markdown file should be stored in the ./markdown/ directory and new sections should follow the section_INT.md format where the order of INT determines the order of the sections in the final document.

README.md, after:

# Pandoc boilerplate
Boilerplate for Markdown to LaTeX and PDF conversion using `pandoc`. The Markdown language is relatively simple, see the essentials on their 
[website](https://www.markdownguide.org/cheat-sheet/). Using `pandoc`, the more complex LaTeX file format can be generated and further compiled 
with your preferred LaTeX to PDF converter. With Markdown we achieve almost the same results as with LaTeX, though much less writing is required.

## Requirements

The following tools are used and need to be installed in order to use this boilerplate.
- [GNU Make](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/)
- [Pandoc](https://pandoc.org/)
- [Pandoc Crossref](https://archlinux.org/packages/extra/x86_64/pandoc-crossref/)
- [TexLive](https://www.tug.org/texlive/)

## Compilation

For easy compilation, e.g. conversion from a `.md` to a `.tex` and `.pdf` file, we use a `Makefile`. Simply run:
```
$ make
```
To clean reproducible files, i.e. the generated `.tex` and `.pdf` file run:
```
$ make clean
```

## Files

The project is structured so it can be separated into multiple `*.md` files. These are stored in the `./markdown/` folder. In that folder there is a 
`0_metadata.md` file, the zero is front is required so the file always ends up front when globbing the directory to concatenate the `*.md` files in 
the directory. Similarly, the separate sections of the documents should follow the format `section.INT.md`. The order of the `INT` will determine the 
order in which these files are concatenated and hence the order of the sections in the final document. Inside the `./markdown/section_1.md` you will see
an additional metadata part that tells us where the bibliography is located, this is only required for text completion of citations with NeoVim. 
The citations are stored in the `references.bib` file and follow the `bibtex` reference format.
 
## Figures

Figures are assumed to be placed in the `figures` folder. For pixel based graphics, it is recommended to use PNG files (300 dpi). For vector 
graphics, use PDF files.

## Citations

Citations should be contained in the `references.bib` file following the `bibtex` format, which is readily available for 
most research papers listed on [Google scholar](https://scholar.google.be/).

## Notes

- To create labels for sections, equations, figures, etc. use \{\#sec:foo\}, and to reference said label use \[\@sec:foo\], naturally,
replace 'sec' with 'eq' for equations, 'fig' for figures, etc.
- Citations follow the same format, \[@foo\] where 'foo' is the name given to the citation in the `main.bib` file.
- Images can be includes with \!\[caption\]\(path/to/image\)\{\#fig:foo .class width=50\% height=50\%\}. The first brackets
give a caption to the image. The second contains the file path to the image we want to display and the last brackets define the
label for the figure used to refer to it, along with `css` type styling, for instance, to size the image.
- In the YAML metadata the `bibliography` field points to the `*.bib` file for the project and is needed for completion with Neovim.

## Makefile documentation

- Quick reference to [Automatic variables](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/manual/make.html#Automatic-Variables)
- Quick reference to [Text Functions](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/manual/html_node/Text-Functions.html)
